are you dating in a total jerk?
well, if you are you might be dating a narcissist
I am here to tell you how to spot a signs of a narcissism
is a Dr. Ramani.
Dr. Ramani thanks for being here to talk with us
about dating a narcissist
My pleasure, thank you my favorite kind of topic. Why is this
your favorite kind of topic? You know what is it
It's a curiosity to me. I started working with a lot of
clients who were i hate the word
,,victimize" but who really hurts by this relationship
and I saw a pattern and I though
wow we got to help this people but in a systematic way
so not only did i really get to helping them
but it all culminated in a book
that was meant  to help everyone who is struggling with this issues
but it was remarkable to me to look in a narcissistic
relationship and essence
it's like looking into the mirror and nothing is looking back at you.
U, good metaphor.
Am ,,Should I stay or should I go'' is your book
about narcissism. What is,
or what define someone to be a narcissist?
A narcissist is, lets talk about in terms of sort of the key or kinds of pillow
it's a person who lacks empathy
who is really entitled, meaning that they expect
special treatment to be giving to them but nobody else
They are very grandiose they harbor a huge of fantasy
they only want to affiliate with people they think as
cool or as interesting as they are. They are
very superficial. They are very concern about their appearance
and the appearance of the people around them. I've always thinks of them as
beautiful facade with not a lot behind them.
They don't regulate their emotions very well
They are very prone to thrown a tantrums, getting angry very quickly, specialy if they dont get their way
and they can be really hipper sensitive to criticism
So those are some of the key elements we see
in a person who is narcissistic. And just because someone has
one or even maybe a two of those does it make them
a narcissists. In fact in my book I have 30 characteristics
so we can go all the way.
So then how many would I have to
have to be a narcissist.  I would say that six I
gave you I expect to see all the six really to
call someone a narcissistic and the longer list for example
they tend to be jealous, they engage in something
called ,,Gaslighting'' where they literary doubt your own reality
leaving you feeling  like you are gone crazy
they don't tend to be very loyal, they do tend of
throw temper tantrums, they get pleasure out of misery
in other people. They are kind of mean - Lets
explain Gaslighting
a little more. What is that look like?
Gaslighting looks like literary like I said when
somebody kinds of denies your reality, so
you might say something like
I feel really sad that you really say that to me,  and they said something like
you have not rights to say that
you have no rights to feel  that way or
they say something you are having an argument with them
and they will had said something terrible to you
couple of days before and you say, Listen when you said that,
they will say I've never said that
and so it's literary like they denies your reality
and when somebody says I never said that
most normal people tend to question of themselves - Mmm..
And so, in fact I've always say one of the ringers
that you're in a relationship with the narcissist who is
gaslighting you is you started to feeling the need
to voice record your conversation with them
so you can play it back to them,I always say when you feel like you need
a voice memo in your relationship it maybe time to get out
-Ok.
I have been
in a relationship where I thought
I am gonna record our next conversation because You are just
not believing that
what has been said has been said. Gaslighting. Wow. But that not necessarily
mean that that person was a narcissist. No that
can be a lot of parts. But yeah but it could be a key indicator
Yeah this is hard for a lot of people I feel like because we do
in our society throw around that term all the time You know
You get mad at somebody and say..well they're being narcisist
well, they want to have dinner at eight, they are narcisista, no they just want to have dinner at eight,you know...-right.
so this type of factors
really help people
narrow it in when they're narcisists
i'm really curios
on... when two narcisists date each other
in your practice, you're a clinical psichologist
you talk always people what is that relationship look like?
it's basically a psichological cage fight
i mean obvously..- ahahahahahha
i souldn't have been laughing, because it affects lot of people
i know it's fascinating because what ends up happening is
nobody's empathic,
nobody's listening,
and they're not playing with each other
they're kind of playing by themselves
everything actually goes well for a while
because they really care that the other one looks good
so they can deliver on that- they only care that the other one
looks good ..because it makes them look good
this... this is like the guy "i need a hot girlfriend"
you know .. it's that kind of a modelo
of ...like.. i need to look good, my partner makes me look good
so, it's a sort of .. almost
is larger than life kind of... almost toopretty couples
that you sometimes...make you wonder  what is a .... looking so good?
don't... don't we want a partner who makes us look good?
no. we want a partner who makes us feel good. -mmm
there's a difference. - there's a big difference
so i think that what ends up happening is that when
the first time one person  made up two narcisists togheter
frustrates the other then
it  all breaks lose
so it gets to be .. when the fireworks go
they go.. big.in this kind of relationships
i always say let the narcisists al cobreed
then we kind of ... get them out of normal dating supplies
just don't reproduce
ok so... you have this two narcisists
that are dating toghether.-right. -
have you ever seen a couple
each of them were a narcisist and they both admit it
that they were both a narcisist.-absolutely
did those relationships succeed?- no.
no i'll tell you what happens is that there's...
a point wich, i will tell you, there's a number of people i work with who have admitted
straight up "i'm a narcisist"i know it
and now i can see how is affecting ...usually it would be kids...
or family relationships or their
intimate relationships
and they wanna do the work but they don't recognize
having almost childlike